---
Layout: page
title: RenMinBi International
tags:
 - RMB
 - Finance
 - FX
 - Global Market
layout: posts
---

# RQFII
`RQFII` stands for Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor. RQFII was introduced in 2011 to allow qualified foreign institutional investors to use RMB to buy securities such as bonds and shares and other investment instruments listed on the Chinese market. RQFII is an extension of the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (QFII) scheme established in 2002.

# What is the difference between QFII and RQFII?

QFII (Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor) allows institutional investors to buy shares in mainland Chinese companies (A-shares) listed on stock exchanges in China. But they have to invest in their home currency, which is then converted. RQFII enables investors to buy into China using RMB. The government introduced it to facilitate the flow of offshore RMB into the country as the currency became more widely used globally.

# Who can use these investment programmes?

Although China's financial system is opening up, there are limits to who can invest. For a foreign institutional investor to qualify, it has to be licensed within its home country, demonstrate its capital strength, and have a track record in investments and asset management.

# How much can be invested?

The Chinese government decides how much can be invested by allocating quotas to different countries. The limit is largely determined by demand. The RQFII quota for all countries is currently RMB970 billion (USD156 billion).

# Which countries have been granted an RQFII quota?

Thirteen countries have been granted RMB quotas: Australia, Canada, Chile, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Luxembourg, Qatar, South Korea, Singapore, Switzerland and the UK. The QFII programme is open to more than 60 countries.
