---
title: Presto DB
layout: posts
---

# WHAT IS PRESTO?

Presto is an open source distributed SQL query engine for running interactive analytic queries against data sources of all sizes ranging from gigabytes to petabytes.

Presto was designed and written from the ground up for interactive analytics and approaches the speed of commercial data warehouses while scaling to the size of organizations like Facebook.

# Introduction

Presto is a distributed system that runs on a cluster of machines. A full installation includes a coordinator and multiple workers. Queries are submitted from a client such as the Presto CLI to the coordinator. The coordinator parses, analyzes and plans the query execution, then distributes the processing to the workers.

Presto does not use MapReduce and thus only requires HDFS.

## Separation of Storage and Compute
Architected for separation of storage and compute, Presto can scale up and down based on your analytics demand to access this data. There’s no need to move your data and provisioning compute to the exact need results in significant cost savings.


### Config Properties

The config properties file, etc/config.properties, contains the configuration for the Presto server. Every Presto server can function as both a coordinator and a worker, but dedicating a single machine to only perform coordination work provides the best performance on larger clusters.
### Catalog Properties
Presto accesses data via connectors, which are mounted in catalogs. The connector provides all of the schemas and tables inside of the catalog. For example, the Hive connector maps each Hive database to a schema, so if the Hive connector is mounted as the hive catalog, and Hive contains a table clicks in database web, that table would be accessed in Presto as hive.web.clicks.

Catalogs are registered by creating a catalog properties file in the etc/catalog directory. For example, create etc/catalog/jmx.properties with the following contents to mount the jmx connector as the jmx catalog:

