---
title: Java Pesistence API Notes
tags:
- Java
- JPA
layout: posts
---
JPA

As you create Session from a SessionFactory, it’s not hard to understand that you use `EntityManagerFactory` to create an instance of EntityManager. However, because JPA is a standard applicable to Enterprise and Standalone applications, there are a couple of modes for obtaining or creating the EntityManagerFactory itself—one that will be created in a managed environment such as Application Servers or Web containers while the other in a standalone application.

Once you have the EntityManager (obtained from EntityManagerFactory), the next step is to declare a ***persistence unit***. A persistence unit is a logical group of persistent classes (called entities in JPA lingo), database settings, and relational mappings.


The JPA specification classifies two types of entity managers: one that runs in a con- tainer-managed environment, and another that runs in a standalone JVM. The former one is typically a Java Enterprise Edition (JEE) container such as an application server or a web container, while the latter is a Java Standard Edition standalone program.

The EntityManager itself is no different in both types but the EntityManagerFactory that creates the EntityManager is a bit unique in how it is configured and created.


In a standalone environment, you should create the EntityManager as shown here:

```java
private EntityManagerFactory factory = null; 
private EntityManager entityManager = null; ..
private void init() {
factory = Persistence.createEntityManagerFactory("trade-mysql-pu");
entityManager = factory.createEntityManager();
}
```

You should pass in the name of the previously defined persistence unit (from persistence.xml) to the createEntityManagerFactory() method. We then obtain the EntityManager by calling createEntityManager on the factory.
