---
title: Something about RESTful architect
tag:
- RESTul
- Architect
----

## REST API must be hypertext driver
[Roy's interview](http://roy.gbiv.com/untangled/2008/rest-apis-must-be-hypertext-driven)

## What's hyptertext
I have a slide in my REST talk that explains what hypertext (and hypermedia) means.

Hypertext has many definitions:
` 
Ted Nelson’s original definition was focused on non-linear documents.

By ‘hypertext,’ I mean non-sequential writing — text that branches and allows choices to the reader, best read at an interactive screen. As popularly conceived, this is a series of text chunks connected by links which offer the reader different pathways. [Theodor H. Nelson]

Later, hypertext became associated with a particular user interface mechanism.

Hypertext is a computer-supported medium for information in which many interlinked
documents are displayed with their links on a high-resolution computer screen. [Jeffrey Conklin]

When I say hypertext, I mean the simultaneous presentation of information and controls such that the information becomes the affordance through which the user (or automaton) obtains choices and selects actions. Hypermedia is just an expansion on what text means to include temporal anchors within a media stream; most researchers have dropped the distinction.

Hypertext does not need to be HTML on a browser. Machines can follow links when they understand the data format and relationship types.

### Sample about web
> Think of it in terms of the Web. How many Web browsers are aware of the distinction between an online-banking resource and a Wiki resource? None of them. They don’t need to be aware of the resource types. What they need to be aware of is the potential state transitions — the links and forms — and what semantics/actions are implied by traversing those links. A browser represents them as distinct UI controls so that a user can see potential transitions and anticipate the effect of chosen actions. A spider can follow them to the extent that the relationships are known to be safe. Typed relations, specific media types, and action-specific elements provide the guidance needed for automated agents.
