---
layout: page
title: Java GC notes
tags:
- java
- GC
---

# Java GC

Java's GC considers objects "garbage" **if they aren't reachable through a chain starting at a garbage collection root**, so these objects will be collected. Even though objects may point to each other to form a cycle, they're **still garbage if they're cut off from the root**.

See the section on unreachable objects in Appendix A: The Truth About Garbage Collection in Java Platform Performance: Strategies and Tactics (free ebook, also available on Safari) for the gory details.



### Java Garbage collector handles circular-reference!

How?

There are special objects called called **garbage-collection roots (GC roots)**. These are always reachable and so is any object that has them at its own root.

A simple Java application has the following GC roots:

    Local variables in the main method
    The main thread
    Static variables of the main class


To determine which objects are no longer in use, the JVM intermittently runs what is very aptly called a **mark-and-sweep algorithm**. It works as follows

    The algorithm traverses all object references, starting with the GC roots, and marks every object found as alive.
    All of the heap memory that is not occupied by marked objects is reclaimed. It is simply marked as free, essentially swept free of unused objects.

So if any object is not reachable from the GC roots(even if it is self-referenced or cyclic-referenced) it will be subjected to garbage collection.
Ofcourse sometimes this may led to memory leak if programmer forgets to dereference an object.

---
The actual answer to this is implementation dependent. The Sun JVM keeps track of some set of root objects (threads and the like), and when it needs to do a garbage collection, traces out which objects are reachable from those and saves them, discarding the rest. It's actually more complicated than that to allow for some optimizations, but that is the basic principle. This version does not care about circular references: as long as no live object holds a reference to a dead one, it can be GCed.

Other JVMs can use a method known as reference counting. When a reference is created to the object, some counter is incremented, and when the reference goes out of scope, the counter is decremented. If the counter reaches zero, the object is finalized and garbage collected. This version, however, does allow for the possibility of circular references that would never be garbage collected. As a safeguard, many such JVMs include a backup method to determine which objects actually are dead which it runs periodically to resolve self-references and defrag the heap.



---


A garbage collector starts from some "root" set of places that are always considered "reachable", such as the **CPU registers, stack, and global variables**. It works by finding any pointers in those areas, and **recursively finding everything they point at**. Once it's found all that, everything else is garbage.

There are, of course, quite a few variations, mostly for the sake of speed. For example, most modern garbage collectors are "generational", meaning that they divide objects into generations, and as an object gets older, the garbage collector goes longer and longer between times that it tries to figure out whether that object is still valid or not -- it just starts to assume that if it has lived a long time, chances are pretty good that it'll continue to live even longer.

Nonetheless, the basic idea remains the same: it's all based on starting from some root set of things that it takes for granted could still be used, and then chasing all the pointers to find what else could be in use.

Interesting aside: may people are often surprised by the degree of similarity between this part of a garbage collector and code for marshaling objects for things like remote procedure calls. In each case, you're starting from some root set of objects, and chasing pointers to find all the other objects those refer to...

---

### How Garbage Collection Really Works

Many people think garbage collection collects and discards **dead** objects. In reality, Java garbage collection is **doing the opposite**! **Live** objects are **tracked** and everything else designated garbage. As you’ll see, this fundamental misunderstanding can lead to many performance problems.

#### Garbage-Collection Roots—The Source of All Object Trees

Every object tree must have one or more root objects. As long as the application can reach those roots, the whole tree is reachable. But when are those root objects considered reachable? Special objects called **garbage-collection roots (GC roots; see Figure 2.2) are always reachable** and so is any object that has a garbage-collection root at its own root.

There are **four** kinds of GC roots in Java:

1. **Local variables** are kept alive by the stack of a thread. This is not a real object virtual reference and thus is not visible. For all intents and purposes, local variables are GC roots.
1. **Active Java threads** are always considered live objects and are therefore GC roots. This is especially important for thread local variables.
1. **Static variables** are referenced by their classes. This fact makes them de facto GC roots. Classes themselves can be garbage-collected, which would remove all referenced static variables. This is of special importance when we use application servers, OSGi containers or class loaders in general. We will discuss the related problems in the Problem Patterns section.
1. **JNI References** are Java objects that the native code has created as part of a JNI call. Objects thus created are treated specially because the JVM does not know if it is being referenced by the native code or not. Such objects represent a very special form of GC root, which we will examine in more detail in the Problem Patterns section below.

Therefore, a simple Java application has the following GC roots:

- Local variables in the main method
- The main thread
- Static variables of the main class


#### Marking and Sweeping Away Garbage

To determine which objects are no longer in use, the JVM intermittently runs what is very aptly called a **mark-and-sweep algorithm**. As you might intuit, it’s a straightforward, two-step process:

1. The algorithm traverses all object references, **starting with the GC roots**, and **marks every object found as alive**.
1. All of the heap memory that is __not occupied by marked objects is *reclaimed*__. It is simply marked as free, essentially swept free of unused objects.


---
Garbage collectors which rely solely on **reference counting** are generally **vulnerable to failing to collection self-referential structures** such as this. These GCs rely on a count of the number of references to the object in order to calculate whether a given object is reachable.

Non-reference counting approaches apply a more comprehensive reachability test to determine whether an object is eligible to be collected. These systems define an object (or set of objects) which are always assumed to be reachable. Any object for which references are available from this object graph is considered ineligible for collection. Any object not directly accessible from this object is not. Thus, cycles do not end up affecting reachability, and can be collected.

---
### Tracing collector vs. countering collector
There are two primary types of garbage collectors, although often a hybrid approach is found between these to suit particular needs. The first type, the one which might be the most intuitive, is a reference counting collector. The second one, which is most similar to what we described above, is a tracing collector.

#### Reference Counting Collector
When a new memory object is allocated by the GC, it is given an integer count field. Every time a pointer is made to that object, a reference, the count is increased. So long as the count is a positive non-zero integer, the object is actively being referenced and is still alive.
When a reference to the object is removed, the count is decremented. When the count reaches zero, the object is dead and can be immediately reclaimed.
There are a number of points to remember about Reference Counting collectors:
1. **Circular references will never be reclaimed**, even if the entire set of objects is dead.
1. **Reference counting is pervasive**: The entire program must be made aware of the system, and every pointer reference or dereference must be accompanied by an appropriate increment or decrement. Failing to maintain the count, even once in a large program, will create memory problems for your program.
1. Reference counting can be **costly**, because counts must be manipulated for every pointer operation, and the count must be tested against zero on ever decrement. These operations can, if used often enough, create a performance penalty for your program.

These types of collectors are often called **cooperative collectors** because they require cooperation from the rest of the system to maintain the counts.
#### Tracing Collector
Tracing collectors are entirely dissimilar from reference counting collectors, and have opposite strengths and weaknesses.
When the Tracing GC allocates a new memory chunk, the GC does not create a counter, but it does create a flag to determine when the item has been marked, and a pointer to the object that the GC keeps. The flags are not manipulated by the program itself, but are only manipulated by the GC when it performs a run.

During a GC run, the program execution typically halts. This can cause intermittent pauses in the program, pauses which can be quite long if there are many memory objects to trace.

The GC selects a set of root objects which are available to the current program scope and parent scopes. Starting from these objects, the GC identifies all pointers within the objects, called children. The object itself is marked as being alive, and then the collector moves to each child and marks it in the same way. The memory objects form a sort of tree structure, and the GC traverses this tree using recursive or stack-based methods.

At the end of the GC run, when there are no more children to be marked, all unmarked objects are considered unreachable and therefore dead. All dead objects are collected.

A few points to remember about Tracing GCs:
1. Tracing GCs can be used **to find cycles**, memory objects whose pointers form circular structures. Reference Counting schemes cannot do this.
1. Tracing GCs **cause pauses** in the program, and these pauses can become unbearably long in some complex programs that use many small memory objects.
1. **Dead objects are not reclaimed immediately**. Reclamation only occurs after a GC run. This causes a certain inefficiency in memory usage.
1. Tracing collectors do not require the program to account explicitly for memory counts or memory status updates. All memory tracking logic is stored inside the GC itself. This makes it easier to write extensions for these systems, and also makes it easier to install a Tracing GC in an existing system then to install a Reference Counting one.

Tracing GCs are often called **uncooperative** collectors because they do not require cooperation from the rest of the system to function properly.
Hybrid Collectors

Sometimes, reference counting schemes will utilize Tracing systems to find cyclical garbage. Tracing systems may employ reference counts on very large objects to ensure they are reclaimed quickly. These are just two examples of hybridized garbage collectors that are more common then either of the two "pure" types described above.

In later chapters, we will discuss garbage collectors and their algorithms in more detail.

## Reference
- http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/java/library/j-jtp10283/
- https://blogs.oracle.com/jonthecollector/entry/our_collectors
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Garbage_collection_%28computer_science%29#Tracing_garbage_collectors
- http://users.cecs.anu.edu.au/~steveb/pubs/papers/urc-oopsla-2003.pdf
- https://www.dynatrace.com/resources/ebooks/javabook/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tracing_garbage_collection
- https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Memory_Management/Garbage_Collection
- http://flyingfrogblog.blogspot.com/2013/09/how-do-reference-counting-and-tracing.html
- https://www.dynatrace.com/resources/ebooks/javabook/how-garbage-collection-works/
- http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1910194/how-does-java-garbage-collection-work-with-circular-references
- http://www.java-books.us/j2ee_0003.php
