---
title: cloud computering
---

# Concepts
Cloud computing is the on-demand demand delivery of compute database storage applications and other IT resources through a cloud services platform via the Internet with `pay-as-you-go` pricing.


# The 6 advantages of cloud computering

## Trade Capital Expense For Variable Expense
## Benefit from massive economies of scale
## Stop guessing about capacity
## Increase speed and agility
## Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers
## Go global in minutes

# 3 types of cloud computing
1. IAAS
2. PAAS
3. SAAS

"Certification is the beginning of your journey, not the end"

# openshift vs openstack
“How does OpenShift relate to OpenStack?”, I answer “OpenShift Origin can run on top of OpenStack. They are complementary projects that work well together. OpenShift Origin is not presently part of OpenStack, and does not compete with OpenStack. If you stand up your own OpenStack system, you can make it even more useful by installing OpenShift Origin on top of it.”


OpenStack provides “Infrastructure-as-a-Service”, or “IaaS”. It provides bootable virtual machines, networking, block storage, object storage, and so forth. Some IaaS service providers based on OpenStack are HP Cloud and Rackspace Cloud. 

The OpenShift hosted service provides “Platform-as-a-Service” or “PaaS”. It provides the necessary parts to quickly deploy and run a LAMP application: the web server, application server, application runtimes and libraries, database service, and so forth.


