---
layout: page
title: Core Java
tag:
- Coding
- Java
---
# overload and override
“selection among overloaded methods is static, while selection among overridden methods is dynamic. ”

“a method is overridden when a subclass contains a method declaration with the same signature as a method declaration in an ancestor.”

```java
“// Broken! - What does this program print?
public class CollectionClassifier {
    public static String classify(Set<?> s) {
        return "Set";
    }

    public static String classify(List<?> lst) {
        return "List";
    }

    public static String classify(Collection<?> c) {
        return "Unknown Collection";
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Collection<?>[] collections = {
            new HashSet<String>(),
            new ArrayList<BigInteger>(),
            new HashMap<String, String>().values()
        };

        for (Collection<?> c : collections)
            System.out.println(classify(c));
    }
}
```
You might expect this program to print Set, followed by List and Unknown Collection, but it doesn't. It prints Unknown Collection three times. Why does this happen? Because the classify method is overloaded, and the choice of which overloading to invoke is made at compile time.”


“the best way to fix the program is to replace all three overloadings of classify with a single method that does an explicit instanceof test:
```java
public static String classify(Collection<?> c) {
    return c instanceof Set  ? "Set" :
           c instanceof List ? "List" : "Unknown Collection";
}
```
Because overriding is the norm and overloading is the exception, overriding sets people's expectations for the behavior of method invocation. As demonstrated by the CollectionClassifier example, overloading can easily confound these expectations. It is bad practice to write code whose behavior is likely to confuse programmers. This is especially true for APIs.”


“Exactly what constitutes a confusing use of overloading is open to some debate. A safe, conservative policy is never to export two overloadings with the same number of parameters. If a method uses varargs, a conservative policy is not to overload it at all,”

“Functional programming is a term that means different things to different people.”
“At the heart of functional programming is thinking about your problem domain in terms of immutable values and functions that translate between them.”




