---
title: Something about RESTful architect
tags:
 - RESTul
 - Architect
layout: posts
---



## REST API must be hypertext driver
[Roy's interview](http://roy.gbiv.com/untangled/2008/rest-apis-must-be-hypertext-driven)

### Key points for a REST structure
API designers, please note the following rules before calling your creation a REST API:

- A REST API should not be dependent on any single communication protocol, though its successful mapping to a given protocol may be dependent on the availability of metadata, choice of methods, etc. In general, any protocol element that uses a URI for identification must allow any URI scheme to be used for the sake of that identification. [Failure here implies that identification is not separated from interaction.]
- A REST API should not contain any changes to the communication protocols aside from filling-out or fixing the details of underspecified bits of standard protocols, such as HTTP’s PATCH method or Link header field. Workarounds for broken implementations (such as those browsers stupid enough to believe that HTML defines HTTP’s method set) should be defined separately, or at least in appendices, with an expectation that the workaround will eventually be obsolete. [Failure here implies that the resource interfaces are object-specific, not generic.]
- A REST API should spend almost all of its descriptive effort in defining the media type(s) used for representing resources and driving application state, or in defining extended relation names and/or hypertext-enabled mark-up for existing standard media types. Any effort spent describing what methods to use on what URIs of interest should be entirely defined within the scope of the processing rules for a media type (and, in most cases, already defined by existing media types). [Failure here implies that out-of-band information is driving interaction instead of hypertext.]
- A REST API must not define fixed resource names or hierarchies (an obvious coupling of client and server). Servers must have the freedom to control their own namespace. Instead, allow servers to instruct clients on how to construct appropriate URIs, such as is done in HTML forms and URI templates, by defining those instructions within media types and link relations. [Failure here implies that clients are assuming a resource structure due to out-of band information, such as a domain-specific standard, which is the data-oriented equivalent to RPC’s functional coupling].
- A REST API should never have “typed” resources that are significant to the client. Specification authors may use resource types for describing server implementation behind the interface, but those types must be irrelevant and invisible to the client. The only types that are significant to a client are the current representation’s media type and standardized relation names. [ditto]
- A REST API should be entered with no prior knowledge beyond the initial URI (bookmark) and set of standardized media types that are appropriate for the intended audience (i.e., expected to be understood by any client that might use the API). From that point on, all application state transitions must be driven by client selection of server-provided choices that are present in the received representations or implied by the user’s manipulation of those representations. The transitions may be determined (or limited by) the client’s knowledge of media types and resource communication mechanisms, both of which may be improved on-the-fly (e.g., code-on-demand). [Failure here implies that out-of-band information is driving interaction instead of hypertext.]




## What's hyptertext
I have a slide in my REST talk that explains what hypertext (and hypermedia) means.

Hypertext has many definitions:
` 
Ted Nelson’s original definition was focused on non-linear documents.

By ‘hypertext,’ I mean non-sequential writing — text that branches and allows choices to the reader, best read at an interactive screen. As popularly conceived, this is a series of text chunks connected by links which offer the reader different pathways. [Theodor H. Nelson]

Later, hypertext became associated with a particular user interface mechanism.

Hypertext is a computer-supported medium for information in which many interlinked
documents are displayed with their links on a high-resolution computer screen. [Jeffrey Conklin]

When I say hypertext, I mean the simultaneous presentation of information and controls such that the information becomes the affordance through which the user (or automaton) obtains choices and selects actions. Hypermedia is just an expansion on what text means to include temporal anchors within a media stream; most researchers have dropped the distinction.

Hypertext does not need to be HTML on a browser. Machines can follow links when they understand the data format and relationship types.

### Sample about web
> Think of it in terms of the Web. How many Web browsers are aware of the distinction between an online-banking resource and a Wiki resource? None of them. They don’t need to be aware of the resource types. What they need to be aware of is the potential state transitions — the links and forms — and what semantics/actions are implied by traversing those links. A browser represents them as distinct UI controls so that a user can see potential transitions and anticipate the effect of chosen actions. A spider can follow them to the extent that the relationships are known to be safe. Typed relations, specific media types, and action-specific elements provide the guidance needed for automated agents.


## Notworthy points

- REST is intended for long-lived network-based applications that span multiple organizations. If you don’t see a need for the constraints, then don’t use them. 

- Don’t confuse application state (the state of the user’s application of computing to a given task) with resource state (the state of the world as exposed by a given service). They are not the same thing.
 
## A Sample of implementing REST via a distributed queue
the usecase of a distributed queue? The queue should not care about the media types it is exchanging between senders and receivers, yet it can quite easily satisfy the addressability, uniform interface, and statelessness constraints of a RESTful architecture. Can’t a service that is media-type agnostic be a RESTful API? Such a service would require assigning semantic meaning to a specific HTTP method and URI pattern and would not receive state transition information from its exchanged media types (as the service doesn’t care or need to know about the media types). I hope I am explaining myself well.

For example:
POST /{queue-name} sends a message to the queue
GET /{queue-name}/top is the current message waiting to be processed. It returns
Location: /messages/111
DELETE /messages/111 tells server you are done processing that message.

## HATEOAS
[Definitions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HATEOAS)
