---
layout: posts
title: Angulary Misc
tags:
- Angular
- JavaScript
---
# Dependency Injection
Angular doesn't automatically know how you want to create instances of your services or the injector to create your service. You must configure it by specifying providers for every service.

Providers tell the injector how to create the service. Without a provider, the injector would not know that it is responsible for injecting the service nor be able to create the service.


# What is difference between declarations, providers and import in NgModule

* imports: is used to import supporting modules likes FormsModule, RouterModule, CommonModule, or any other custom-made feature module. makes the exported declarations of other modules available in the current module
* declarations are to make directives (including components and pipes) from the current module available to other directives in the current module. Selectors of directives, components or pipes are only matched against the HTML if they are declared or imported. declaration is used to declare components, directives, pipes that belongs to the current module. Everything inside declarations knows each other. For example, if we have a component, say UsernameComponent, which display list of the usernames, and we also have a pipe, say toupperPipe, which transform string to uppercase letter string. Now If we want to show usernames in uppercase letters in our UsernameComponent, we can use the toupperPipe which we had created before but how UsernameComponent know that the toupperPipe exist and how we can access and use it, here comes the declarations, we can declare UsernameComponent and toupperPipe.
* providers are to make services and values known to DI. They are added to the root scope and they are injected to other services or directives that have them as dependency.provider is used to inject the services required by components, directives, pipes in our module.

# CLI to create new component
```javascript
ng generate component components/xxx-table -m deposit.module.ts --spec
ng generate component components/comp1 -m core.module.ts --spec
Error: Specified module does not exist
Specified module does not exist


$ ng generate component core/components/comp1 -m core/core.module --spec
Error: dryRunSink.commit(...).ignoreElements is not a function
dryRunSink.commit(...).ignoreElements is not a function


ng generate component app/core/components/comp1 -m app/core/core.module --spec
```


# Angular JS notes

AngularJS applications are built around a design pattern called Model-View-Controller (MVC), which places an emphasis on creating applications that are

- Extendable: It is easy to figure out how even a complex AngularJS app works once you understand the basics—and that means you can easily enhance applications to create new and useful features for your users.
- Maintainable: AngularJS apps are easy to debug and fix, which means that long-term maintenance is simplified.
- Testable: AngularJS has good support for unit and end-to-end testing, meaning that you can find and fix defects before your users do.
- Standardized: AngularJS builds on the innate capabilities of the web browser without getting in your way, allowing you to create standards-compliant web apps that take advantage of the latest features (such as HTML5 APIs) and popular tools and frameworks.
