---
title: Mac tips
tags:
- Mac
- shortcut
- Efficiency
layout: posts
---

# how to show full path in Finder window
Open and run following command in terminal window
```bash
defaults write com.apple.finder _FXShowPosixPathInTitle -bool true; killall Finder
```

# how to switch differnt input
This can be configured in system proferenece->keyboard shortcuts->input sources->select next source in input
Ctrl+Alt+Space

# How to force an app to quit on your Mac
Press these three keys together: Option, Command, and Esc (Escape). This is similar to pressing Control-Alt-Delete on a PC. Or choose Force Quit from the Apple () menu in the upper-left corner of your screen.

# To capture screenshot of Mac
Press Shift + Command + 5, then click an option, like Selection button to capture a still selection or Whole screen button to record your whole screen.

The screenshot tools appear in a small palette, which you can drag to reposition. The palette includes options for where to save the screenshot, whether to show the pointer, and more.

Save, edit, and share your shots
 After you take a screenshot or video, a thumbnail appears in the corner of your screen. Drag it int


# Forward delete (delete char next to cursor)
Fn+Delete

# To hide and show dock 
Just hit Command+Option+D at any time, and the dock will glide away (or back again).

# Windows

## Open a file
- Cmd+Down arrow
- Cmd+O

## Switch between windows
While you have two or more documents open in your favorite word-processing software, simply press and hold the Command ⌘ key and then strike the ~ (Tilde) key on your keyboard.


## navigate on page
fn + ←  Jump to top of document
fn + →  Jump to bottom of document
fn + ↓  Advance down one page
fn + ↑  Advance up one page

## Enter path in open/save window
Press `Ctrl+Shift+G` will open GoTo window

## Switch running applications
Besides Command + Tab, you can swipe up on the touchpad with three fingers to view the windows of open apps, allowing you to quickly switch between programs. This view is called Mission Control, which also has its own dedicated keyboard shortcut (F3).

## Capture screen shot

### To capture the entire screen, press Command-Shift-3
 The screen shot will be automatically saved as a PNG file on your desktop with the filename starting with “Picture” followed by a number, example Picture 1, Picture 2, and so on.
 
### To capture a portion of the screen, press Command-Shift-4

# Terminal
## Page up /Down
- Page up/down: Fn + up/down arrow, or Ctrl+f/b
## Setup command line for sublime
```sh
ln -s "/Applications/Sublime Text.app/Contents/SharedSupport/bin/subl" /usr/local/bin/sublime
```

## Open files from terminal
```sh
open abc.jpg
```


## To make changed profile settings take effect right away
```sh
source .bash_profile
```

# Applications

## Safari



## Sublime 

### Switch different sublime windows

```sh
'command + ~'
```

### Path of customize build system
```sh
~/Library/Application Support/Sublime Text 3/Packages/User/Nodejs.sublime-build
```

### Open folders in Sublime
```sh
sublime .
```

### Open and edit file with sublime
```sh
open -a 'Sublime Text' .bash_profile
```

### Show full path in Sublime text 3
With Sublime Text 3, all that's necessary is to edit your Sublime user preferences (Preferences -> Settings - User) to include:
```sh
{
  // ... other settings
  "show_full_path": true
}
```

### Open files (go to anything) in sublime
Command + P

### Go to matching brace 
Ctrl + M

### Go to previous/next position

* Ctrl + "-"
* Ctrl + Shift + "-"

### Preview markdown

Command + Shift + P -> Preview

# Gestures

## Three (3) fingures for windows switch

- Up: Mission control, show all running applications
- Left/Right: Swtich desktops

## Thumb + three figures
- Center to outside: show desktop
- Outside to Center: show launch pad
