---
title: cloud computering
tags:
- cloud
layout: posts
---

# Concepts
Cloud computing is the on-demand demand delivery of compute database storage applications and other IT resources through a cloud services platform via the Internet with `pay-as-you-go` pricing.


# The 6 advantages of cloud computering

## Trade Capital Expense For Variable Expense
## Benefit from massive economies of scale
## Stop guessing about capacity
## Increase speed and agility
## Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers
## Go global in minutes

# 3 types of cloud computing
1. IAAS
2. PAAS
3. SAAS

"Certification is the beginning of your journey, not the end"

## Edge location
Edge locations are CDN endpoints for CloudFront.

## IAM
Identity Access Management, to control who can access the service. IAM is apply to "Global", it's not releated to any single region.

### MFA
Multiple Factors Authentication, which can be virtual (software) or hardware devices.

## How to access AWS
 1. Web console
 2. CLI (command line)
 3. SDK


## Account
By logging into webconsole with your email acess, you are in root account. The root account alwyas has full administrator access. You should not give these account credentials away to anyone. You should always secure this root account using multi factor authentication.

## Group
A group is simply a place to store your users. Your users will inherit all permissions that the group has. Examples of groups might be developers, system administrators, etc.

## Policy
To set the permissions in a group you need to apply a policy to that group. Policies consist of JSON.

## S3
- Its a safe place to store your files. They are object-based storage.
- S3 is a global name space, so you won't have same name with others.
- There is unlimited storage. 
- Files are stored in Buckets, you can think buckets as folder.
- There are versioning, encryptiong for file storage
- Secure your data using Access Control Lists(Object level) and Bucket policies(folder level)

### S3 solutions
- S3 (99.99% availability , 99.999999999% durability)-> S3 IA (infrequently accessed) -> Reduced Redundancy Storage -> Glacier (very cheap , used for archival, it takes 3-5 hours to restore from Glacier, its $0.01/GB/Month)
- S3 is for current data while Glacier is for archived data.

### S3 Transfer Acceleration
It enable fast, easy and secure transfer of files over long distances between your end users and an S3 bucket. Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of Amazon CloudFront's globally distributed edge locations. As data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.

# Cloudfront
It's the CDN services. Amazon CloudFront can be used to deliever your entire website, including dynamic, static contents using a global network of edge locations. There are two types of distributions available: 
- Web Distribution: typically used for websites.
- RTMP distribution: used for media streaming

## Edge location
This is the location where content will be cached. This is separate to an AWS region/AZ (Avaiability Zones)

## Origin
This is the origin of all the files that the CDN will distribute. This can be an S3 bucket, an EC2 instance, and Elastic Load Balancer or Route53.

# EC2
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) is a web service that provies resizable compute capacity in the cloud. Basically EC2 are just virtual machines. EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements changes.

## EC2 options
- On demand
- reserved
- Spot. Users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity.
- Dedicated

## EBS
Elastic Block Storage. Amazon EBS allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to Amazon EC2 instances. Once attached, you can create a file system on top of these volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use in a block device. It's simply a virtual disk that you install your operating system on and all relevant files.

# openshift vs openstack
“How does OpenShift relate to OpenStack?”, I answer “OpenShift Origin can run on top of OpenStack. They are complementary projects that work well together. OpenShift Origin is not presently part of OpenStack, and does not compete with OpenStack. If you stand up your own OpenStack system, you can make it even more useful by installing OpenShift Origin on top of it.”


OpenStack provides “Infrastructure-as-a-Service”, or “IaaS”. It provides bootable virtual machines, networking, block storage, object storage, and so forth. Some IaaS service providers based on OpenStack are HP Cloud and Rackspace Cloud. 

The OpenShift hosted service provides “Platform-as-a-Service” or “PaaS”. It provides the necessary parts to quickly deploy and run a LAMP application: the web server, application server, application runtimes and libraries, database service, and so forth.


