---
title: iOS programming
tags:
    - iOS
    - swift
layout: posts
---

# View
A view is also a responder (UIView is a subclass of UIResponder). This means that a view is subject to user interactions, such as taps and swipes. Thus, views are the basis not only of the interface that the user sees, but also of the interface that the user touches 

# The Window and Root View
The top of the view hierarchy is the app’s window. It is an instance of UIWindow (or your own subclass thereof), which is a UIView subclass. Your app should have exactly one main window. It is created at launch time and is never destroyed or replaced

# Object
In Swift, the syntax of message-sending is dot-notation. We start with the object; then there’s a dot (a period); then there’s the message. (Some messages are also followed by parentheses, but ignore them for now; the full syntax of message-sending is one of those details we’ll be filling in later.) This is valid Swift syntax:

fido.bark()
rover.sit()

The idea of everything being an object is a way of suggesting that even “primitive” linguistic entities can be sent messages. Take, for example, 1. It appears to be a literal digit and no more. It will not surprise you, if you’ve ever used any programming language, that you can say things like this in Swift:

let sum = 1 + 2

But it is surprising to find that 1 can be followed by a dot and a message. This is legal and meaningful in Swift (don’t worry about what it actually means):

let s = 1.description



Just as 1 is actually an object, + is actually a message; but it’s a message with special syntax (operator syntax). In Swift, every noun is an object, and every verb is a message.


extension Int {
    func sayHello() {
        print("Hello, I'm \(self)")
    }
}
1.sayHello() // outputs: "Hello, I'm 1"

In Swift, then, 1 is an object. In some languages, such as Objective-C, it clearly is not; it is a “primitive” or scalar built-in data type. So the distinction being drawn here is between object types on the one hand and scalars on the other. In Swift, there are no scalars; all types are ultimately object types. That’s what “everything is an object” really means.

# Class

Swift has classes, but 1 in Swift is not a class or an instance of a class: the type of 1, namely Int, is a struct, and 1 is an instance of a struct. And Swift has yet another kind of thing you can send messages to, called an enum.

So Swift has three kinds of object type: classes, structs, and enums. I like to refer to these as the three flavors of object type. Exactly how they differ from one another will emerge in due course. But they are all very definitely object types, and their similarities to one another are far stronger than their differences. For now, just bear in mind that these three flavors exist.

# Variables

A variable is a name for an object. Technically, it refers to an object; it is an object reference. Nontechnically, you can think of it as a shoebox into which an object is placed. The object may undergo changes, or it may be replaced inside the shoebox by another object, but the name has an integrity all its own. The object to which the variable refers is the variable’s value.

In Swift, no variable comes implicitly into existence; all variables must be declared. If you need a name for something, you must say “I’m creating a name.” You do this with one of two keywords: let or var. In Swift, declaration is usually accompanied by initialization — you use an equal sign to give the variable a value immediately, as part of the declaration. These are both variable declarations (and initializations):

let one = 1
var two = 2

# main.swift

Swift also has a special rule that a file called main.swift, exceptionally, can have executable code at its top level, outside any function body, and this is the code that actually runs when the program runs. You can construct your app with a main.swift file, but in general you won’t need to.
